George Floyd! was not famous. He was killed not in the capital of the United States, but on a street corner in its 46"-largest city". Yet in death he has suddenly become the keystone of a movement that has seized all of s America. Still more remarkably, he has inspired protests abroad, from Brazil to Indonesia, and France to Australia. His legacy' is the rich promise of social reform. It is too precious to waste. The focus is rightly on America. The protests there, in big cities and tiny towns far from the coasts, may be the most widespread in the country's long history of marching. After an outburst of rage following Mr Floyd's death, the demonstrations have, as we hoped last week, been overwhelmingly peaceful. They have drawn in ordinary Americans of all races. [...] The marches outside America are harder to define. In Mexico and South Africa the target is mainly police violence. In Brazil, where three-quarters of the 6,220 people killed by police in 2018 were black, race is a factor too. Australians are talking about the treatment of aboriginals. Some Europeans, used to condemning' America over race, are realizing that they have a problem closer to home. Angela Merkel has asked Germans to take the chance to sweep outside their own front doors". Several countries are agonizing over public monuments. [...] The scale of the protests has something to do with Mr Trump, too. [...] But most fundamentally, and most happily, the protest reflects a rising rejection of racism itself. The share of Americans who see racial discrimination in their country as a big problem has risen from 51% in January 2015 to 76% now. A YouGov' poll last week found that 52% of Britons think that British society is fairly or very racist, a big rise from similar polls in the past. In 2018, 77% the French thought France needed to fight racism, up from 59% in 2002. Pew Research found last year that in most countries healthy majorities welcome racial diversity.
America is both a country and an idea. When the two do not match, non-Americans notice more than when an injustice is perpetrate In, say Mexico or Russia. And wrapped up in that idea of America is a conviction that progress is possible. [...] The median household net wealth of African-Americans is $18,000, a tenth of the wealth of white Americans. The ratio has not changed since 1990. An important cause of this is that many African-Americans are stuck in the racially monolithic neighbourhoods where their grandparents were allowed to settle at a safe distance from whites. Houses in these places are very cheap. The separation helps explain why inequality endures in schooling, policing and health. The government has a role in reducing it. Federal Spending worth $22.6bn already goes on housing vouchers. Schemes to give poor Americans a choice over where they live have Republican and Democratic backing in Congress. With Better schools and less crime, segregated districts become gen mixedtified, leaving them more racially Firms have an incentive to change Research suggests that racial diversity is linked to higher profit margin d that the effect growing though it is hard to be certain which comes first, has diversity also become clear that a vocal share of employees or performance. It and customers wil1 shun companies that do not deal with racism. Large-scale social change is hard. Protest movements have a habit of antagonizing" the moderate supporters they need to succeed. Countries where the impulse of change is not harnessed" to specific reforms will find that it dissipates'. Yet anyone who thinks racism is too difficult to tackle might recall that just six years before George Floyd was born, interracial marriage was still illegal in 16 American states. Today about 90% of Americans support it. When enough citizens march against an injustice, they can prevail'. That is the power of protest.